the markets aren't as busy as normal the
single largest employer in Palestine is
the Palestinian Authority or PA but it's
in danger of going bankrupt and with it
the Palestinian economy the crisis is
the worst the PA has suffered since it
was established in 1993 after the Oslo
Accords Israel refuses to give the PA
its own money the PA can't collect its
own tax revenues and relies on Israel to
do so one economics professor explains
why
the so-called Paris agreement put a lot
of restrictions on the Palestinian
economy which stopped it using its own
resources as a ceas fit and the Israelis
have restricted Palestinian economic
growth as a result the Palestinian
Authority wasn't able to manage the
economy successfully because of this and
couldn't establish Economic Institutions
to develop an independent economy the
Palestinian Authority Remains the key
economic driver for Palestinians
employing 143,000 people the PA is
currently paying an average of between
60 and 75% of salaries due to each
worker because Israel is withholding the
tax the salary we got covers only 40 to
60% of our needs so we have to look for
other jobs some workers used to look for
jobs in Israeli cities but now that's
also been taken away from us this is the
trade Crossing between Palestine and
Israel the Israelis say they'll release
the money but with deductions and no
money for PA employees in Gaza the PA
has refused this and says Israel must
pay all that's owed the issue has driven
a wedge between allies America and
Israel the US President Joe Biden is
putting a tremendous amount of pressure
on prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to
release the funds to the Palestinian
Authority but the prime minister is also
under a tremendous amount of pressure
from with within his own Coalition party
the openly racist and farri Finance
Minister Bethel smotrich has said
publicly not a single shekele will be
transferred to the Palestinian Authority
if it does then he's going to quit uh
the coalition government and that could
at the very least mean early elections
but probably the end of prime minister
Benjamin netanyahu's political career
the us though is clear it wants a
revitalized PA to take eventual control
in Gaza after the war War anything other
than a weak PA is not something Israel
wants and currently the authority is as
weak as it has ever been and it's
getting weaker Imran Khan Al jaaz
Ral make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer